We analyzed the 2017 Neighborhood Health Profile Data from the Baltimore City Health Department. It is comprehensive and 
contains data about major health outcomes for 55 Community Statistical Areas in the city of Baltimore. Although this data is 
from 2017, it is still relevant because Baltimore has a long history of high homicide rates. 

We looked at these factors: 
- Median household income 
Median annual household income, according to the Baltimore Neighborhood Indicators Alliance
- % living below Federal Poverty Level 
Percentage of families that earned less than the Federal Poverty Level in the past 12 months
- % of Adults with Less than a HS Diploma 
Percentage of adults 25 years of age or older with less than a high school diploma
- % of Area Covered by Food Desert 
Percentage of land area covered by food desert, as defined by the Center for a Livable Future
- Vacant Lot Density
Number of vacant lots per 10,000 housing units
- Unemployment
Percentage of population 16 years of age or older in the labor force that are unemployed


First, we conducted a multiple linear regression between all the variables to determine which variables were statistically 
significant. The R squared from this initial analysis is around 70%, meaning that around 70% of the data can be displayed 
using this model. However, the only variables that are statistically significant with a p value of less than 0.05 are 
unemployment, % of area covered by food desert, and vacant lot density. 

Then we modified our model to only include the statistically significant variables. The R squared is around the same and the 
significance F decreased, meaning that there is a very high probability that unemployment, % of area covered by food desert,
and vacant lot density impact the % of deaths due to homicides. However, after finding the correlation between vacant lot 
density, unemployment, % of area covered by food desert, and % of deaths due to homicides, there is a very low correlation 
between vacant lot density and % of deaths due to homicides. 

This information is supported with a scatterplot between vacant lot density and % of deaths due to homicides as only around 
6% of the data can be explained by this model, meaning that vacant lot density does not have a significant effect on 
homicide rates.

Afterwards, we made two other scatterplots: % of area covered by food desert vs. % of deaths due to homicide and unemployment
and % of deaths due to homicide. To better visualize this data, we finally created a Pivot Table with the significant
variables (unemployment and % of area covered by food desert) and % of deaths due to homicides. From this table, we created
a Pivot line graph to show that in the neighborhoods in Baltimore in which there are high unemployment and food deserts
(peaks in the line graph), % of deaths due to homicides also peaks.

